docs/about/introduction.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Introduction

Treasurenet is a Layer 1 blockchain purpose-built to transform real-world activity into verified blockchain-native value.

​​It captures physical output—such as energy generation, resource extraction, and manufacturing—and records it on-chain as verified data. This is made possible by a custom-built infrastructure designed to track, authenticate, and record physical output using smart contracts. 

At its core, Treasurenet is a system where action generates reputation, reputation mints currency, and currency unlocks liquidity. 



## Features

&rarr; **Consensus built on Real-World Assets (RWA):** First Layer 1 blockchain built on the decentralized verification of RWA productivity, where the L1 network generates UNIT token rewards based on such RWA.

&rarr; **Scalability and Performance:** Designed for Solidity and RUST compatibility and low latency, Treasurenet ensures efficient handling of real-world assets on its blockchain, paving the way for broader adoption of decentralized asset management.

&rarr; **RWA for UNIT Token Emission:** Treasurenet's protocol token, UNIT, has a finite and disinflationary supply. Block rewards emission rate is determined by RWA production rate.

&rarr; **RWA for Bonus Block Rewards:** Treasurenet employs a unique validator selection process, where validator nodes are rewarded based not only on contributions to the network but also on real-world asset production.

&rarr; **Decentralized Governance:** Treasurenet's DAO plays a crucial role in governing the platform, making decisions about key protocol parameters and interacting with the community via non-profit foundation.

Commit message:

Added How it Works and Why it Matters under Introduction Section

docs/about/introduction.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Introduction

Treasurenet is a Layer 1 blockchain purpose-built to transform real-world activity into verified blockchain-native value.

​​It captures physical output—such as energy generation, resource extraction, and manufacturing—and records it on-chain as verified data. This is made possible by a custom-built infrastructure designed to track, authenticate, and record physical output using smart contracts. 

At its core, Treasurenet is a system where action generates reputation, reputation mints currency, and currency unlocks liquidity. 



🔁 ## How it Works

At the core of Treasurenet’s design is a simple flow:

Verified work earns Rep Score
 Your on-chain reputation, tied directly to real-world contribution.


Rep Score mints UNIT
 A disinflationary token used for governance and protocol rewards.


UNIT can be collateralized to mint TCash
 An alternate currency used across the ecosystem for lending, payments, and other DeFi use cases.

Unlike traditional crypto models, Treasurenet does not rely on artificial scarcity. Value is created through proof of real work.

##Why It Matters

Treasurenet provides foundational infrastructure for Real-World Assets (RWA) and Decentralized Finance (DeFi).
It enables a more transparent, equitable, and verifiable economy—powered by work that actually happened.
We call it: Tokenizing Productivity.
